---
layout: post
title: 'I Was Going to be a Doctor'
date: '2020-11-19'
author: 'Bill'
tags: [nablowrimo, timasomo]
image: /assets/images/posts/exam.jpg
---

Growing up, when I didn't want to be an inventor, a scientist, or a paleontologist, I wanted to be a doctor. I told everyone that's what I was going to be. I would go to university to study medicine, and save lives. The grown-ups around me always seemed impressed and optimistic at my chances for doing so.

When I got my GCSEs, I was featured in the local news for getting one of the best sets of grades in the year, and I told them I was going on to do Biology, Chemistry, Maths, and Japanese at A-level, all so I could be a doctor. I had done my research and picked the three necessary subjects, and Japanese as one to continue because I straight up loved it. It's worth pointing out that GCSEs had been pretty straightforward for me. I was lucky enough to have coasted through with a lot of A* results without much revision (to say nothing of some heavily plagiarised coursework), and I grew to be quite complacent by the time A-levels rolled around.

A-levels were, on the whole, quite enjoyable for me. Smaller class sizes, more autonomy, and free periods during the day! Whole hours in which to ~~play pool with my friends in the garage~~ study hard to keep up with the work. I dossed around for quite some time at A-level, and only really started to work right at the end of the second year when I realised that I couldn't just walk through my exams.

I had made my UCAS applications, and had an interview at Newcastle University, but ultimately received no offers. My A-level grades of an A, two B's, and a C were certainly not enough to get me onto a medical course, so I was faced with a decision come summertime: resit a year of sixth form (which, admittedly, a good number of my peers were doing), or apply to a different course through clearing.

I remember telling my then girlfriend that I was "ready to move out of my parents' house." Not that I truly was ready, but I meant that I wanted to experience the freedom I sensed would come with it, and the opportunity to forge my own path. I felt that regardless of what I was studying, I wanted to be at a university, away from home, growing up. A year felt like _such_ a long time to wait for that, and I was done waiting. So I applied through clearing to study Japanese at the University of Leeds, and was accepted almost immediately. 

It was a great experience, and I don't regret a bit of it. Other than my fairly respectable 2:I degree, I can now honestly say that I was going to be a doctor, but I didn't have the patience.
