---
layout: post
title: 'On Returning to Facebook'
date: '2020-11-02'
author: 'Bill'
tags: [nablowrimo, timasomo]
---

Much has been said over the last few years about the outsized effect that social media has on our lives and our mental wellbeing. The [Cambridge Analytica scandal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Facebook%E2%80%93Cambridge_Analytica_data_scandal) of 2018 saw the revelation that data had been stolen from millions upon millions of Facebook users, and used to manipulate the results of democratic processes, such as the 2016 US Presidential Election, and allegedly the Brexit referendum of the same year.  
  
I encourage you to have a read of the wikipedia article, as it makes for some interesting reading. In particular it mentions that despite only 270,000 or so people installing the original data-harvesting app, Facebook estimates that Cambridge Analytica had data on 87 million users: data which was not gathered legally, or with consent, and was used for political gain. That level of data access is utterly mind boggling. In fact, Facebook now offers a tool that can show you exactly what information they have on you (and thanks to GDPR you are now able to submit a deletion request). My own use of that tool had me horrified to discover that they knew my grandmother's name, phone number, and relationship to me, simply because I'd once installed the Facebook app on my smartphone.

Even before 2018 I was already losing patience with Facebook, but looking back I can't put my finger on exactly why I was so frustrated. Perhaps I had a sense that this was not a positive step for the Internet and society as a whole, and that while Facebook was certainly _useful_ it was almost _too_ useful at times. University societies were managed through Facebook groups, the marketplace continues to supplant services such as Craigslist and Gumtree, and even the most mundane of events were getting planned through it (guilty as charged: I once planned a casual game of football in the park through Facebook). Why would anyone ever need to leave the platform? You can [shop online](https://www.forbes.com/sites/anthonysvirskis/2020/05/26/instagram-shoppinga-new-dawn-for-social-commerce/) through Instagram now, you can [date](https://metro.co.uk/2020/10/22/facebook-dating-launches-in-europe-with-secret-crush-feature-that-lets-you-choose-which-friends-you-secretly-fancy-13461459/) on the platform, or [spread batshit conspiracy theories](https://variety.com/2020/digital/news/facebook-bans-qanon-trump-conspiracy-group-1234728644/) with impunity.

And so I had had enough, and I quit. I took my data, my photos, and deleted my account. I migrated all of my group chats to other services (inevitably we landed on the Facebook-owned WhatsApp, so you may now call me a hypocrite) and bid farewell to the platform. Except I couldn't completely avoid it. My bands have always been active on social media, and to manage a band page you need a personal account. So I created a dummy account for that exact reason, and was happy, for a time. 

Unfortunately, networking is now something that happens mostly through Facebook as well. And networking, as an aspiring creative, is 80% of the work. Maintaining relationships with other bands, musicians, promoters, pluggers, artists, event planners, venues... All part of the job, and that was happening on Facebook. I lost count of the number of times I'd meet someone at a gig, and be asked for my Facebook details so they could keep in touch, only for me to say I wasn't on it, and here's my phone number instead. In the end it felt like I was trying to play a guitar with only half the strings. Doable, yes. But not in any way optimal. Hell, if it weren't for Facebook, I never would have seen that advert that led to me joining [Ey Up Maiden](https://eyupmaiden.com). 

And so I'm back on Facebook, for better or worse. If I want to be serious about making my bands successful, and scouting out other opportunities for collaboration and musical work... Well, it's 2020 and you can't not be on the platform. I intend to be a little more cautious and deliberate about my use of it, and hope that in the coming years, this gamble pays off.

This is a topic I may well return to over the next few weeks, as I have more thoughts about social media that I've yet to articulate. Oh, and add [me](https://www.facebook.com/bill.odwyer.75/), I guess.
