---
layout: post
title: 'Dungeons and Dragons'
date: '2020-11-14'
author: 'Bill'
tags: [nablowrimo, timasomo]
image: /assets/images/posts/dnd.jpg
---

From one game by Wizards of the Coast to another. Today I want to talk about Dungeons and Dragons.

Dungeons and Dragons (or D&D) is a very different beast from Wizard Cards. It is a roleplaying game, in which players take on the personae of various characters in a fantasy world. A world that is full of strange creatures, great cities, eldritch magic, and wonderful stories.

Because at its heart, D&D is a game about storytelling. The players are guided through a world full of characters by one player called the Dungeon Master. The DM's job is to play all of the "non-player characters," keep the story moving, control any attacking monsters, and so on. They are in charge of the world of the game, and the players are set loose in this imaginary playground.

Play is controlled by a character sheet, and dice rolls. In this game of improvisation and play-acting, it is not enough to say that you chop the head off the goblin king. You must roll a 20-sided dice, and if you do not get a high enough result the king's head remains on his shoulders, and you must find a new solution. Your character sheet contains a set of skills, spells, and equipment that you can use in this story, and it informs how you tackle problems.

For example your character might not be so great at fighting, or be very easy to kill, and so might wish to avoid combat at all costs. You can use the skills on your character sheet to persuade potential combatants to back down before you. You could try to recruit them to your cause, or trick them into thinking you aren't even there. The game uses the world's most powerful graphics chip: the human imagination, and the sky is the limit.

The players and the DM work together to tell a story, weaving in personal moments as the players' in-game characters interact with the world around them, and each other. Each session of the game usually advances the story a little, either in the larger plot, or of the characters' own drama.

As such, it is one of the most wonderfully collaborative and creative games I've ever played. I am a big fan of co-operative games generally. Co-operative games offer the most player interaction in board games, and Dungeons and Dragons delivers in spades. All the players, including the DM, are rooting for these characters to succeed. Rolling a 20 on the die causes a cheer to go around the table, and the DM injects a "critical success" into the scene: the result of the interaction is above and beyond the normal success criteria. You may gain more information than you were expecting, frighten more enemies into running away, or decapitate the goblin king with such panache that will lead to songs being sung about you for years to come.

Dungeons and Dragons has been an absolute joy to discover over the last few years. As both a player and a Dungeon Master I have had some wonderful experiences playing the game with a variety of groups, telling stories that have been hysterically funny, downright grim, unbelievably heroic, shockingly cowardly, and everything inbetween. 
